Multi CPU Arch - add IBM Power and Z support (#2583)
travis-ci/docs-travis-ci-com: user/multi-cpu-architectures.md

permalink: /user/multi-cpu-architectures/
---

> This is an alpha stage of this feature and we are eager to hear back from you, both for [`Arm`-based feedback](https://travis-ci.community/t/about-the-arm-cpu-architecture-category/5336) and [`IBM`-based feedback](link TBD). The definition keys used in the `.travis.yml` file may be further adapted on short notice.
{: .alpha}

> > `IBM Power`, `IBM Z` and `Arm`-based building is only available for Open Source repositories (at both travis-ci.org and travis-ci.com). While available to all Open Source repositories, the concurrency available for multi cpu arch-based jobs is limited during the alpha period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> `IBM Power`, `IBM Z` and `Arm`-based building is only available for Open Source repositories (at both travis-ci.org and travis-ci.com). While available to all Open Source repositories, the concurrency available for multiple CPU arch-based jobs is limited during the alpha period.
```

> > An attempt to run `IBM Power`, `IBM Z` and `Arm`-based build for a private repository will result in a build run on standard, `AMD`-based infrastructure. For any commercial queries with regards to multi-arch builds before they are available, please [contact us](mailto:support@travis-ci.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> An attempt to run `IBM Power`, `IBM Z` and `Arm`-based builds for a private repository will result in a build run on standard, `AMD`-based infrastructure. For any commercial queries with regards to multi-arch builds before they are available, please [contact us](mailto:support@travis-ci.com).
```

If your code is used on multiple CPU architectures it probably should be tested on multiple CPU architectures. Travis CI can test on amd64, ppc64le (IBM Power CPUs), s390x (IBM Z CPUs) and arm64 (run on ARMv8 compliant CPUs) if the operating system is Linux.

> ## Default CPU architecture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Default CPU Architecture
```

The default CPU architecture used in Travis CI builds is `amd64`. It is used when no `arch` key is present. 

> ## Identifying CPU architecture of build jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identifying CPU Architecture of Build Jobs
```

You can identify for which CPU architecture a build job is run via

- GUI

>   - in build job list there's a specific label and architecture name based on `arch` tag value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - in the build job list, there's a specific label and architecture name based on `arch` tag value
```

>   - in build job view the same specific label is displayed near operating system identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - in the build job view, the same specific label is displayed near the operating system identifier
```

> - A default environmental variable printed out during your build job: `$TRAVIS_CPU_ARCH` (for complete list of available default environmental variables please see [Environment Variables - Default Environment Variables](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/#default-environment-variables) documentation). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A default environmental variable printed out during your build job: `$TRAVIS_CPU_ARCH` (for a complete list of available default environmental variables please see our [Environment Variables - Default Environment Variables](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/#default-environment-variables) documentation. 
```

> ## Enable testing on multiple CPU architectures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Testing on Multiple CPU Architectures
```

To enable testing on multiple CPU architectures add the `arch` key to your `.travis.yml`:

```yaml
arch:
  - amd64
  - ppc64le
  - s390x
  - arm64
os: linux  # different CPU architectures are only supported on Linux
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

If you are already using a [build matrix](/user/customizing-the-build/#build-matrix) to test multiple versions, the `arch` key also multiplies the matrix.

- The ppc64le (IBM Power) and s390x (IBM Z) build jobs are run in an LXD compliant Linux OS image. 
- The arm64 CPU architecture build job is run in an LXD compliant Linux OS image.

> - The default LXD image supported by Travis CI is Ubuntu Xenial 16.04 and by using `dist` one can select different supported LXD image. See [CI Environment Overview - Virtualisation Envionment vs Operating System](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/reference/overview/#virtualisation-environment-vs-operating-system) doc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default LXD image supported by Travis CI is Ubuntu Xenial 16.04 and by using `dist` you can select different supported LXD images. Also see our [CI Environment Overview - Virtualisation Environment vs Operating System](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/reference/overview/#virtualisation-environment-vs-operating-system) documentation.
```

Author: Thanks! Added that one manually

```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

> Similarly, this matrix would route builds to the ppc64le (IBM Power) and s390x (IBM Z) architecture environments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, this matrix would route builds to the `ppc64le` (IBM Power) and `s390x` (IBM Z) architecture environments:
```

For example, the above `.travis.yml`, would result in running both jobs with the environmental variable LIB_PATH assigned different values being run only on `amd64` architecture.

> ## Using Docker in Multi CPU Architecture-Based Builds within LXD Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Docker in Multiple CPU Architecture-Based Builds within LXD Containers
```

> It is possible to use Docker in Multi CPU Architecture-based builds within an LXD container. You may need an specific CPU architecture compliant docker image as a base or ensure relevant libraries required by your build are added to your Dockerfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to use Docker in multiple CPU architecture-based builds within an LXD container. You may need a specific CPU architecture compliant docker image as a base or ensure relevant libraries required by your build are added to your Dockerfile.
```

```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

> You can try it out also for `ppc64le` (IBM Power) and `s390x` (IBM Z) based docker builds, assuming all dependencies and/or CPU architecture compliant base docker image is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try it out also for `ppc64le` (IBM Power) and `s390x` (IBM Z) based docker builds, assuming all dependencies and/or a CPU architecture compliant base docker image are used.
```

You can also have a look at [Using Docker in Builds](user/docker/).

## Security and LXD Container

> ### Access to priviliged fs/features (Apparmor)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Access to Privileged fs/Features (Apparmor)
```

would result in an error.

Also have a look at the [Github issue relevant to the topic](https://github.com/lxc/lxd/issues/2661) and the [LXD apparmor setup](https://github.com/lxc/lxd/blob/master/lxd/apparmor/apparmor.go) for more details.

> ### System calls interception

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### System Calls Interception
```

> If you run into message like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run into a message like:
```

> System doesn't support syscall interception

It most probably means a system call interception is outside of the list of the ones considered to be safe (LXD can allow system call interception [if it's considered to be safe](https://github.com/lxc/lxd/blob/master/doc/syscall-interception.md)). 

> ## Hugepages support from within LXD Container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Hugepages Support from within LXD Container
```

> Build job can’t enable hugepages within LXD container - this is something that may change in the future, yet it depends on potential Linux kernel changes, which is something that needs to be reviewed and developed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A build job can’t enable hugepages within an LXD container - this is something that may change in the future, yet it depends on potential Linux kernel changes, which is something that needs to be reviewed and developed.
```
